CHAPTER ONE
INTRODUCTION
1.1	Background of Study
Nowadays, the need to education is unlike any period before because the increasing advances in technology and science demand people who continuously learn and update their knowledge repertoire. Learning is not, similar to the past, limited to school days, and people need to have access to new or previously learned information at any time and place. Less than fifty years ago, such unlimited access to information seemed like a fancy and untouchable dream because education and learning were tied to knowledgeable people and instructional materials, and such people or materials were only accessible in specific places and times.
The emergence of computer and internet technologies; however, realized this dream. The first and most important thing they did was making information accessible to anyone who had access to them. Internet, as it is today, emerged round 1980’s and it quickly spread around the globe. It enabled its users to have access to others’ information, contribute to it with their own information, and be in contact with other users. In parallel, the advances in computer technology brought about cheap and high-speed personal computers and mobiles and soon, many schools, offices, and homes were equipped with them. They enabled people to access this large pool of information from any place and in any time.  
Apart from technology progress, research in the field of human learning widened the knowledge of educationists and psychologists beyond the Behaviourist views of learning, and learners were confirmed to be more than passive receivers of information and respondents to environmental stimuli. In fact, the Cognitivist and Constructivist theories of learning showed that learners have the capacity of processing the information and building their individual knowledge bases, and they verified the importance of tailoring instruction to the needs of individual learners rather than prescribing a one-size-fits-all approach.  
Additionally, the pioneering research by Bloom demonstrated the superiority of one-to-one over group instruction with outstanding results (Bloom, 1984). Bloom conducted experiments with different groups of learners in different learning situations and concluded that the ideal form of instruction is when an instructor instructs a person-or two to three people-rather than a group of people. The reason is that good instruction is not only a matter of conveying information, but also adapting the instruction to individual learners. A reality that is better realizable in one-to-one learning conditions. However, one-to-one tutoring has always been hard to realize in real-world educational setting due to the large difference between the number of instructors and learners and the high costs of providing one instructor for each learner.
Such scientific findings and technology advances, coupled with the emergence of Artificial Intelligence (AI), triggered the idea of designing technology-based instructional machines which are intelligent enough to adapt their instruction to learners in order to provide the benefits of one-to-one tutoring. The use of machines and computers for instructional purposes was already a mainstream at the time of AI emergence, but was limited to static and inflexible systems which were not intelligent and adaptive. After AI came on the stage, numerous systems with different purposes, theoretical backgrounds, architecture, and under different titles were designed and developed, and while some did not acquire much success, others have been quite successful in some domains.
	Adaptive learning is an educational method which uses computers as interactive teaching devices, and to orchestrate the allocation of human and mediated resources according to the unique needs of each learner. Computers adapt the presentation of educational material according to students' learning needs, as indicated by their responses to questions, tasks and experiences. The technology encompasses aspects derived from various fields of study including computer science, education, psychology, and brain science.
	Adaptive learning makes content dynamic and interactive, placing the student at the centre of his or her individual learning experience. 
