CHAPTER ONE
INTRODUCTION
1.1	Background of Study
Nowadays, the need to education is unlike any period before because the increasing advances in technology and science demand people who continuously learn and update their knowledge repertoire. Learning is not, similar to the past, limited to school days, and people need to have access to new or previously learned information at any time and place. Less than fifty years ago, such unlimited access to information seemed like a fancy and untouchable dream because education and learning were tied to knowledgeable people and instructional materials, and such people or materials were only accessible in specific places and times.
The emergence of computer and internet technologies; however, realized this dream. The first and most important thing they did was making information accessible to anyone who had access to them. Internet, as it is today, emerged round 1980’s and it quickly spread around the globe. It enabled its users to have access to others’ information, contribute to it with their own information, and be in contact with other users. In parallel, the advances in computer technology brought about cheap and high-speed personal computers and mobiles and soon, many schools, offices, and homes were equipped with them. They enabled people to access this large pool of information from any place and in any time.  
Apart from technology progress, research in the field of human learning widened the knowledge of educationists and psychologists beyond the Behaviourist views of learning, and learners were confirmed to be more than passive receivers of information and respondents to environmental stimuli. In fact, the Cognitivist and Constructivist theories of learning showed that learners have the capacity of processing the information and building their individual knowledge bases, and they verified the importance of tailoring instruction to the needs of individual learners rather than prescribing a one-size-fits-all approach.  
Additionally, the pioneering research by Bloom demonstrated the superiority of one-to-one over group instruction with outstanding results (Bloom, 1984). Bloom conducted experiments with different groups of learners in different learning situations and concluded that the ideal form of instruction is when an instructor instructs a person-or two to three people-rather than a group of people. The reason is that good instruction is not only a matter of conveying information, but also adapting the instruction to individual learners. A reality that is better realizable in one-to-one learning conditions. However, one-to-one tutoring has always been hard to realize in real-world educational setting due to the large difference between the number of instructors and learners and the high costs of providing one instructor for each learner.
Such scientific findings and technology advances, coupled with the emergence of Artificial Intelligence (AI), triggered the idea of designing technology-based instructional machines which are intelligent enough to adapt their instruction to learners in order to provide the benefits of one-to-one tutoring. The use of machines and computers for instructional purposes was already a mainstream at the time of AI emergence, but was limited to static and inflexible systems which were not intelligent and adaptive. After AI came on the stage, numerous systems with different purposes, theoretical backgrounds, architecture, and under different titles were designed and developed, and while some did not acquire much success, others have been quite successful in some domains.
	Adaptive learning is an educational method which uses computers as interactive teaching devices, and to orchestrate the allocation of human and mediated resources according to the unique needs of each learner. Computers adapt the presentation of educational material according to students' learning needs, as indicated by their responses to questions, tasks and experiences. The technology encompasses aspects derived from various fields of study including computer science, education, psychology, and brain science.
	Adaptive learning makes content dynamic and interactive, placing the student at the centre of his or her individual learning experience. 
1.2	Statement of The Problem
Due to the different intellectual capabilities and entry knowledge of students, adoption of a "one-size-fits-all” method for presenting course modules to different students is grossly inadequate. The Information Technology has provided a platform to be leveraged to overcome the challenge, this is to be demonstrated in this project by implementing an adaptive learning environment.
1.3	Aim and Objectives
The aim of this project is to implement an intelligence based adaptive web educational system.
The objectives are:
i.	To prepare a sample modularized course for the system
ii.	 To implement an open source Adaptive knowledge based system.
iii.	To evaluate the effect of the adaptive system on learner’s speed of courseware completion and on learning.
1.4	Methodology
i.	A part of the CSC427 course (Computer Networking) would be modularized and adopted.
ii.	The functionality of an Adaptive Learning Environment and an authoring tool would be explored and implemented and the course modules would be designed using the authoring tool and presented using the Adaptive Learning Environment. 
iv.	The effectiveness of the system would be evaluated by administering usability questionnaires.
v.	A learning management system would be improved upon for efficient use.

1.5	Literature Review
Different adaptive learning engines have been used to build adaptive learning systems, an example of this engine is the GRAPPLE Adaptive Learning Engine(GALE), Online Course Tool for Adaptive Learning(OCTAL)
Some of these systems are ‘Dreambox Learning Platform’, ‘edX Learning Platform’, ‘Knewton Adaptive Learning Platform’.
1.6	Significance
This project has various significances to both the lecturer and the student, one significance of the system to the student is that an adaptive system makes learning comfortable for students since the pace of the course is determined by the intellectual ability of the students, it also improves the success chances of students.
1.7	Scope and limitations of study
The system would be limited with implementing adaptivity on a single course, CSC427 (Computer Networking) and would be used by 400 level students of the Department of Computer Science. This is to ensure capturing and analysis of usability results.



1.8	Definition of Terms
Education:		The Process or art of imparting knowledge, skill and judgement.
Adaptive Learning:	At the most basic level, adaptive learning is the notion that computers can improve educational outcomes, Adaptive learning makes content dynamic and interactive, placing the student at the center of his or her individual learning experience.	
Student Model:	The main component of adaptive e-Learning systems is a student model. It is sometimes referred to as a learning model or user model. It contains all student information, for example, their domain knowledge, behavior, learning level, and other information.
Expert Model:	The expert model stores information about the material which is being taught. This can be as simple as the solutions for the question set but it can also include lessons and tutorials and, in more sophisticated systems, even expert methodologies to illustrate approaches to the questions.
Concept Map:	Concept maps are graphical tools for organizing and representing knowledge. They include concepts, usually enclosed in circles or boxes of some type, and relationships between concepts indicated by a connecting line linking two concepts.
